source/doc/5-flex-rails/1-overview.md, before:

---
layout: doc
title: flex-rails - Overview
alias_index: true
---

# {{ page.title }}

The `flex-rails` gem provides the engine and generators to integrate the flex gems with `Rails`. It loads the `flex`, `flex-scopes` and `flex-model` gems, so you don't have to explicitly include them in the Gemfile, unless you need to force some special version or commit.

## Setup

### 1. Customize the `Gemfile`

Add the following to your Gemfile:

{% highlight ruby %}
# use one of the following
# libcurl C based http client - faster
gem 'patron', '~>0.4.18'
# pure ruby http client - more compatible
# gem 'rest-client', '~> 1.6.7'
gem 'flex-rails'
{% endhighlight %}

### 2. Run `bundle install`

### 3. Run `rails generate flex:setup` that will install the needed files with comments and stubs

### 4. Customize the `config/initializers/flex.rb`

In this initializer you must add the `flex_models` array (of names or classes), and may want to customize other configuration variables. For example:

{% highlight ruby %}
Flex::Configuration.configure do |config|
  config.flex_models = %w[ Project ]
  config.result_extenders |= [YourResultExtenderA, YourResultExtenderB, ...]
  config.variables.deep_merge! :index => 'test',
                               :type  => 'project'
end
{% endhighlight %}

{% see 1.3 %}

### 5. Run `rake flex:import` or `rake flex:index:create`

You sould use either `rake flex:index:create` or `rake flex:import` (if you already have data to index from your DB) in order to create a new index and its auto-generated mapping.

### 6. Customize `config/flex.yml`

This is an optional yaml file used to add custom mapping to your index or indices. You don't need to use it unless you start to map your index/indices better. Flex provides a quite detailed mapping by default, keeping into consideration all your indexed models and also parent/child relationships. Your file will be deep merged with the structure that Flex will prepare on its own. You can inspect the mapping in the console with one of:

{% highlight irb %}
>> Flex.get_mapping
>> Flex.get_mapping :index => 'the_index', :type => nil
{% endhighlight %}


While at it you can get info about the method and the usage of `get_mapping` by doing as usual:

{% highlight irb %}
>> Flex.doc :get_mapping
{% endhighlight %}

{% see 2.4 %}

### 7. Customize the `app/flex/*`

Usually contains your search classes (those that include any of `Flex::Templates`, `Flex::ModelIndexer`) and your Tempates Sources {% see 2.2.2 %}. Average applications usually have just one class and one source template file but your mileage may vary. Here you can also add your Result Extenders modules {% see 2.3 %}, so keeping all the Flex related files together.

### 8. Remember

> During development, remember also:
>
> 1. each time you add a `Flex::ModelIndexer` or `Flex::ActiveModel` you should add its name to the `config/initializers/flex.rb`
> 2. each time you add/change a `flex.parent` relation in a model you should reindex your DB(s) with `rake flex:import FORCE=true`

## Rails 3

Flex comes with a Rails 3 engine that integrates with your app very easily. The engine sets a few configuration defaults:

 * `config.flex.variables[:index]` to your application's underscored name, plus the current `Rails.env` (e.g. `'my_app_development'`)
 * `config.flex.config_file` default path to `"#{Rails.root}/config/flex.yml"`
 * `config.flex.flex_dir` default path to `"#{Rails.root}/app/flex"`
 * `config.flex.logger.level` to `Logger::DEBUG` in development mode (`Logger::WARN` otherwise)
 * `config.flex.logger.log_to_rails_logger` to `true` for the Rails server and `false` for the Rails console
 * `config.flex.logger.log_to_stderr` to `false` for the Rails server and `true` for the Rails console
 * `config.flex.logger.debug_result` to `true` for the Rails server and `false` for the Rails console

{% see 1.3 %}

## Per Environment Configuration

You might want to have different configuration settings for different environments. You can do so by using the `config.flex` object in the environment file, for example:

{% highlight ruby %}
config.flex.http_client          = Flex::HttpClients::Patron
config.flex.http_client.base_uri = 'http://localhost:9400'
{% endhighlight %}

## Rails 2

You can use Flex with Rails 2 applications as well, just remember that you should require `flex-rails` so it will set the `config_file` and `flex_dir` paths for you {% see 1.3 %}, but remember that the default `config.flex.variables[:index]` variable for Rails 2 is not set so you better configure it, somewhere. Also remember that you should explicitly call `Flex::Rails::Helper.after_initialize` to complete the rails integration. Except this little difference in the configuration, there is no other difference from Rails 3.

Commit message:

update for config.flex_active_models

source/doc/5-flex-rails/1-overview.md, after:

---
layout: doc
title: flex-rails - Overview
alias_index: true
---

# {{ page.title }}

The `flex-rails` gem provides the engine and generators to integrate the flex gems with `Rails`. It loads the `flex`, `flex-scopes` and `flex-model` gems, so you don't have to explicitly include them in the Gemfile, unless you need to force some special version or commit.

## Setup

### 1. Customize the `Gemfile`

Add the following to your Gemfile:

{% highlight ruby %}
# use one of the following
# libcurl C based http client - faster
gem 'patron', '~>0.4.18'
# pure ruby http client - more compatible
# gem 'rest-client', '~> 1.6.7'
gem 'flex-rails'
{% endhighlight %}

### 2. Run `bundle install`

### 3. Run `rails generate flex:setup` that will install the needed files with comments and stubs

### 4. Customize the `config/initializers/flex.rb`

In this initializer you must add the `flex_models` and/or `flex_active_models` arrays (of names or classes), and may want to customize other configuration variables. For example:

{% highlight ruby %}
Flex::Configuration.configure do |config|
  config.flex_models = %w[ Project ]
  config.flex_active_models = %w[ WebContent ]
  config.result_extenders |= [YourResultExtenderA, YourResultExtenderB, ...]
  config.variables.deep_merge! :index => 'test',
                               :type  => 'project'
end
{% endhighlight %}

{% see 1.3 %}

### 5. Run `rake flex:import` or `rake flex:index:create`

You sould use either `rake flex:index:create` or `rake flex:import` (if you already have data to index from your DB) in order to create a new index and its auto-generated mapping.

### 6. Customize `config/flex.yml`

This is an optional yaml file used to add custom mapping to your index or indices. You don't need to use it unless you start to map your index/indices better. Flex provides a quite detailed mapping by default, keeping into consideration all your indexed models and also parent/child relationships. Your file will be deep merged with the structure that Flex will prepare on its own. You can inspect the mapping in the console with one of:

{% highlight irb %}
>> Flex.get_mapping
>> Flex.get_mapping :index => 'the_index', :type => nil
{% endhighlight %}


While at it you can get info about the method and the usage of `get_mapping` by doing as usual:

{% highlight irb %}
>> Flex.doc :get_mapping
{% endhighlight %}

{% see 2.4 %}

### 7. Customize the `app/flex/*`

Usually contains your search classes (those that include any of `Flex::Templates`, `Flex::ModelIndexer`) and your Tempates Sources {% see 2.2.2 %}. Average applications usually have just one class and one source template file but your mileage may vary. Here you can also add your Result Extenders modules {% see 2.3 %}, so keeping all the Flex related files together.

### 8. Remember

> During development, remember also:
>
> 1. each time you add a `Flex::ModelIndexer` or `Flex::ActiveModel` you should add its name to the `config/initializers/flex.rb`
> 2. each time you add/change a `flex.parent` relation in a model you should reindex your DB(s) with `rake flex:import FORCE=true`

## Rails 3

Flex comes with a Rails 3 engine that integrates with your app very easily. The engine sets a few configuration defaults:

 * `config.flex.variables[:index]` to your application's underscored name, plus the current `Rails.env` (e.g. `'my_app_development'`)
 * `config.flex.config_file` default path to `"#{Rails.root}/config/flex.yml"`
 * `config.flex.flex_dir` default path to `"#{Rails.root}/app/flex"`
 * `config.flex.logger.level` to `Logger::DEBUG` in development mode (`Logger::WARN` otherwise)
 * `config.flex.logger.log_to_rails_logger` to `true` for the Rails server and `false` for the Rails console
 * `config.flex.logger.log_to_stderr` to `false` for the Rails server and `true` for the Rails console
 * `config.flex.logger.debug_result` to `true` for the Rails server and `false` for the Rails console

{% see 1.3 %}

## Per Environment Configuration

You might want to have different configuration settings for different environments. You can do so by using the `config.flex` object in the environment file, for example:

{% highlight ruby %}
config.flex.http_client          = Flex::HttpClients::Patron
config.flex.http_client.base_uri = 'http://localhost:9400'
{% endhighlight %}

## Rails 2

You can use Flex with Rails 2 applications as well, just remember that you should require `flex-rails` so it will set the `config_file` and `flex_dir` paths for you {% see 1.3 %}, but remember that the default `config.flex.variables[:index]` variable for Rails 2 is not set so you better configure it, somewhere. Also remember that you should explicitly call `Flex::Rails::Helper.after_initialize` to complete the rails integration. Except this little difference in the configuration, there is no other difference from Rails 3.
